ADHD - weed to me is like adderol is to normal people Weed makes me think a lot.
Whether it helps me think... well :) that's up for debate LOL

But it sometimes helps me concentrate. I'm thinking so amazingly in the zone
right now. I'm so concentrated and in flow. It feels amazing.

Here's an example of me concentrating really hard and enjoying it. It's kinda a
TLA+ example, as I'm trying to have the example be part of the proof of my
point. My thoughts prove how weed affects me like Adderol does:

Zac offering me adderol once. I think he did it because he was like "this makes
me happy, I think it'll make you happy too and I wanna make you feel happy so
you like me". Offering "the chance to get a prescription drug to be happy" is a
bad thing. Offering the "choice to be happy" is a good thing.

It was silly of zac to conflate the two, coulda been bad lol. I tried the drug
for fun, which would only be ok if Zac thought it was safe ==> only ok if I
thought it was safe. I did, of course, but damn.

Anyway see THATS the concentration bullshit I'm talking about looool. I didn't
need to think that but I just get so fixated on a branch of thought and I deeply
fully explore it instead of my normal Breadth First approach to thinking about
something.

I gotta commit thoughts to reality and then repeat a BFS. In this regard my
thoughts perform like A*, that is, BFS around an intelligently chosen heuristic.
My heuristic is history.

So as you can imagine this is quite inefficient when thinking about the future.
Weed just made me see that, but it also forced me to concentrate on it in a way
I don't get sucked into normal tasks.

End example

===

Also I can't sleep on thinky Weed. Although that's arguably because I'm
concentrating on electronics when I'm in this mood.

Example: Also lol I just couldn't tell that I had to pee
*
but that's just a me problem in general.
*

Depending where I end the example (which * do I choose to insert the markdown)
it is or isn't TLA+ correct. That is, true no matter what.

Question: what is my ability to sleep due to weed related to? A) weed making me
go on my computer B) weed being like adderol

A implies I was up because I had to pee, but I couldn't tell I had to pee,
because I was high.

B implies I was up because I had to per, but I couldn't tell I had to Lee
because I normally can't tell that.

This is all wrong

===

I needed out on TLA+ this weekend

Also making macros for my mouse

I should post to Instagram about this cuz I wanna share about it to people but
idk who to talk to. Maybe Ashwin, lol.

you should think of property-based testing not as a testing process, but as a
design process ... if a key aspect of your design is satisfied with just a
simple implementation, then perhaps there is something you have overlooked
â something that, when you discover it, will make your design both
clearer and more robust.

TDD works with specific examples, while PBT works with universal properties.

examples are useful as a way into a design, and can be a form of documentation.
But relying only on example-based tests would be a mistake. Properties scale
with complexity so much better!

And sometimes you need hyper properties - that is 1 and only 1 example is
useless for a 2-property, but 2 and only 2 examples may be good enough to
disprove.

A hyper property is like "the average of this system is 10". You need infinite
examples to ensure this is true. A 2-property is any 2 invocations with
equal(ish) starting state yield the same result. This beats race conditions if
states are exactly equal and can also be just a property of your system:
(changing state[0] does not affect the answer)

https://fsharpforfunandprofit.com/posts/property-based-testing-2/

You also might be thinking that designing all these properties is a lot of work
â and you'd be right! It is the hardest part.

Ok but also... the hardest part of writing unit tests is writing GOOD unit
tests. And good unit tests actually test all these properties anyway.

So if you wanna actually test properly, you HAVE to test these properties
ANYWAY!! So... why would you ever test them indirectly? :)

"if a TDD fan tells you that they don't have the time to come up with
property-based tests, then they might not be looking at the big picture."

Actually... exactly this. A good TDD'er will be coming up with properties
implicitly. Let's make them part of the code already!

https://fsharpforfunandprofit.com/posts/roman-numeral-kata/

This is OP. Even if I never formally use TLA+ in unit tests, I'll still write
comments explaining the property-based intent of each test case

I would strongly recommend that you write tests that map directly to the
requirements. If the requirements are any good, this will mean that the tests
cover many inputs at once, so you can then test as many inputs as you can.

https://www.wired.com/2013/01/code-bugs-programming-why-we-need-specs/
https://channel9.msdn.com/Events/Build/2014/3-642


Epic. Understanding core of TLA+ allowed me to understand what Lamport was
saying.

The other big drawback is state-space explosion. Imagine you have three
processes, each four sequential steps long, and can they can interleave the
steps in any way. If they don't affect each other's behaviors, there are (4`*`3)!
/ (4!)^3 = 34,650 total possible executions (behaviors). If each process has one
of five initial states, you now have 4,300,000 total behaviors. And the model
checker has to make sure all of them behave nicely. And this is assuming they
don't interact with each other! If they do, the state space gets bigger even
faster. The combinatorial explosion is seen as the primary challenge to model
checking, and there's a lot of work put into making this more tractable.
