It's crazy. Humans have inherited complexity. What chemicals do we need to put
in our brain to feel certain things - I dunno, no one knows perfectly yet. But
there's a whole field of science trying to figure out the machinery that we run
on EVERY DAY.

That's just wild to me, lol. And plants and animals run on the same machinery
!!! It was so crazy to see cool chemical reactions happen in class,,, but then a
tree is just a chemical reaction too, and it's all big and growwy and ... alive?

Humans can also make systems more complex than our understanding. That's why
computers are hackable. To give a simpler example, let's look at 3D printers.
There're so many variables - filament material, filament purity, filament
dryness, filament width & Â± filament width. Bed temperature, nozzle
temperature. The geometry of what you're printing, the slicing software you use
to make gcode. This part alone has hundreds of variables - optimizations/tweaks
that you can choose to use. And then you have the firmware that interprets the
gcode, the motors and belts actuating movement, even the amount of tension from
the screws holding these things together. The state space quickly grows
enormous.

Anytime I see a simple "markov" system (Dumb CS word for jumping from state to
state like A->B->C), things seem so straightforward. Model object, slice to
gcode, feed to printer. But then thinking about all the possible states this can
go through in the real world is just mind-blowing. It is not hard to create a
simple system with unfathomably many states. We can't understand every nuance,
but we can establish guide rails.

In this quantized world, we can make general predictions. The ball will fall. It
seems ironic to me that a tenet of quantum physics like tunneling can seem so
unquantized, whereas in the real world, a balls position in relationship to a
wall is ACTUALLY quantized.

I overthink things, and I can go all Chidi on big questions, lol. So sometimes
this "unlimited possibilities" thought freaks me out. But other times, it's
like, really ... freeing. To architect something that yields unfathomable
complexity - is that a mistake? Or is it a benefit? Is it avoidable? If it is,
should it be avoided?
