import Layout from "../components/layout"

export default Layout

# Prologue

To Hyuntae, and to myself. I read Ted Chiang's short stories this week. I loved
them. I took some notes while reading, because I wanted to. Maybe you'll enjoy
peering into my mind. While this is no substitution for the conversation I trust
we'll have soon, I want to share. My thoughts on Vonnegut's book also don't
really belong here (especially considering the URL lol) but whatever. I also
didn't read through and edit what I wrote. If you find it unintelligible then
we'll just have to call or talk about it next time I see you in person. I can
wait, the thoughts this book gave me won't go away any time soon, and I'm going
to try and get other people to read this, too.

These notes are stream of consciousness, it might help to have the book's table
of contents next to you as you read what I'm writing, or else it might be hard
to follow what I'm referring to. As these notes were written just for me, to
scratch an itch, I make no attempt to explain until I realize how complicated
the ideas are, and I see that I'll need help understanding them later.

Also, as you'll quickly see, I cared a lot less about the book and my thoughts
on the book at the start of reading it. I have much more to gleam from the book,
reading it again may be just as enjoyable as reading it for the first time. The
realizations gained from the book will help me interpret the rest of it.

And so on.

# Book 1

Vonnegut's book "Breakfast of Champions"

Where everyone is a robot in Dwayne's mind

Is why Vonnegut can't live in the fiction that he creates

He needs real humans, or else life isn't worth a damn.

He must acknowledge every life as a beautiful unwavering band of light.

He must respect other people, or life isn't worth a damn.

And so on

In the epilogue, it is shown how even with free will, people so commonly make
the same decisions. That is, they're all robots. That is, they're all unwavering
bands of light.

The way the characters were real to Vonnegut, he was struggling with how his
characters were or weren't real. He needed them to be real, for his own sanity.
This meant that he couldn't torture them

# Book 2

"It was the realization that, because he couldn't understand what had brought
her to such an action, he couldn't feel anything for her"

The parallel between falling outta love and proving that 1=2. Something so so so
certain reduced to a contradiction.

What a fantastic description of depression. Depression finds a way to make you
feel alone.

The book is about being different because of intelligence, knowledge being a
burden. About loneliness.

The isolation is because of being smarter - or thinking that one is smarter. It
might be a lack of ability to relate, and it might be a lack of respect. Maybe
both.

Vonnegut's Breakfast of Champions: An unwavering band of light. Trout felt safer
in anonymity

The title is Story of YOUR life to not exclude the reader like Chiang used to
exclude all others (?). Of YOUR life to make the reader, who maybe ALSO excludes
all others, listen and relate. To help the reader realize that he's not alone
just as Ted is not alone.

Babylon loses, Leon loses, Renee loses. The smart people lose every single time.
Chiang is preaching to respect the intelligence of others.

I learned in Hebrew school, on a section about Kabbalah, G-d's true name is said
to have 72 letters. Invoking it was said to make miracles, everything from
better crops to bringing the dead back to life. This knowledge as why the Jews
were the chosen people, it was central to their identity. Only the high priests
knew it. When the temple was destroyed, there were no more high priests.

It is said that there's only one such way to commit blasphemy in the Jewish
tradition. To invoke the true name of god asking him to kill himself. There is a
very special trial that occurs when this happens, and there is much detail about
it. People were to mourn horribly if this happens.

Some say that this is why god is no longer with us, and that it was a knower of
the name's wish that the name be forgotten.

One of the many names for god in the Jewish tradition is HaShem, meaning, The
Name.

Ted is so biblical. SO biblical. I found this strange coming from a man so
scientific. This feels like a contradiction, reminiscent of the linguist's
confusion about the photon seeing the future was based on a contradiction.

The classic Ted Chiang sentiment: "Those who were already devout found Benny's
descriptions thrilling, but to Neil, they seemed frustratingly vague."

I fucking love the Calli story. Ted's ability to see both sides of an argument,
so convincingly. Well, really he was just incredibly pro-Calli, but he played
the role of Orwellian oppressor with the PR firm SO well! God that was kinda
scary, to be honest.

Ted's short stories always get RIGHT to the point in terms of wacky and
interesting stuff. I love the mechanics. They're always so simple, and he takes
the implications so far. I think he does it in a very fair and unbiased way,
too. Like he doesn't just run with something, he convinces you that that's how
humans would think about it, and I find myself agreeing with him most every time

The Merchant and Alchemist's gate is a fantastic story. I can't speak highly
enough about it. I am filled with so much love for the world after reading it.

The determinism, "no free will", leads to an enlightened type of life. It's very
zen, where it doesn't matter what you do yet you do it well anyway. Respect and
grace, a willingness to accept tragedy and continue living well through it. Just
as that man didn't make it to Heaven, yet didn't complain.

This way, the walls that wrap all around you and pin you in aren't oppressive.
They always have been there and always will be, so there's no reason to be
afraid of them. Embrace it, and it will embrace you. Accept it, and continue
living well through it.

There's nothing wrong with it. It's perfectly natural, and a goddamned good
place to be.

God! The world Ted builds, and the casual descriptions of them. It is fantastic
fun. These simple pieces of magic are the most natural things in the world to
him. There's nothing special about them, these wondrous blessings and curses.
They simply are. There to be accepted. You may struggle fight and reject, but
the universe marches on.

Very personable academics.

The simple mechanics yield surprising results, so gracefully! When you make
people robots, and they can't naturally reproduce, they develop a high sense of
honor and respect for the agency and well-being of others. And that, coupled
with no pain, makes the dude operating on his own brain something that makes the
most sense!

When we hear what he's doing as a series of sensical in-the-moment decisions,
what he's doing doesn't seem crazy at all, but like the most natural thing in
the world. When inspected, these natural actions appear to be quite fantastic. I
interpret it as Ted speaking to the potential for greatness in all of us. Keep
doing your thing, and you'll get what you deserve. There's no other way to live
life, under a world view of determinism. The fantastic and the mundane are no
different, and one shouldn't cause you to rejoice any more than the other.

Ted writes so beautifully. The machine examining itself, such a sense of wonder
and discovery. As he examines himself with a machine, what a strange and
beautiful thought "were these manipulators not essentially my hands? Were the
magnifying lenses at the end of my periscope not essentially my eyes?"

Replacing electricity with air is a fantastic and strange thing. God! It's
incredible! "The lattice was not so much a machine as it was a page on which the
machine was written, and on which the machine itself ceaselessly wrote". "the
source of life is a difference in air pressure, the flow of air from spaces
where it is thick to those where it is thin."

This concept is very important: "It was by chance as much as by intention that
my hands adjusted the controls to avert my periscopic gaze from the latticework,
so all I could see was the plain surface of my worktable.", a piece of knowledge
that a being can't handle - that's what learning of determinism can be like.
I've never heard of an argument that makes such an elegant case to accept this
concept.

It's not just being smart that isolates you, but it's this particular type of
knowledge - no matter how you come about obtaining it. This is why those who see
heaven's light are eyeless. They seem blind to those who don't understand how
they've accepted it. They ARE blind. They are fools. But… they're enlightened.
This contradiction is the lesson.

"There is no source of power in the universe that does not ultimately derive
from a difference in air pressure, and there can be no engine whose operation
will not, on balance, reduce that difference."

These mechanics let you talk beautifully about the universe, replacing humans
with robots and electricity with air and an infinite universe with a walled one
allows an elegant and incredibly natural metaphor for the inevitable heat death
of the universe. "I don't care because it's infinitely far away - in terms of
distance AND time" turns to "Oh snap, we can literally count it".

With a God, the order of the universe is much closer to us than the bounds of
the universe, and can thus be inspected and maybe even fully grokked, in very
specific and unique cases. With a god, the inevitable end is understandable, and
thus a great tragedy. And as with all great tragedies under this mindset, it
won't be the end of the world. This is quite a curious contradiction.

It's almost a tragedy that the lesson at the center of the universe proves
itself wrong. Unless… the contradiction IS the lesson.

I see it, but I struggle to describe it! The "normal" Mindset of the world,
Mindset 1, equates tragedies to pain. But under Mindset 2, tragedies are okay.
Mindset 2 protects you from the pains of tragedy. Yet under Mindset 2, you must
recognize Ultimate Tragedy. The Ultimate Tragedy can take any form, but at its
crux is this: It is the realization of that which would destroy someone under
Mindset 1. So to protect from pain, you must accept literal death. Clearly a bad
trade, but that's a hard thing to describe... Under Mindset 1, it's an okay
trade, I suppose. But under Mindset 2, it's an awful trade!! So. Why do
something painful for benefits that you won't appreciate! It's the monkey's paw
paradox. Your wish is granted, but only in a way that makes you wish it weren't.

So because of Mindset 2, you get struck that that which you would have been safe
from otherwise, Ultimate Tragedy. And you accept that to protect yourself from
tragedy. Accept Ultimate Tragedy and you'll be okay. Accept the Human Condition.
And make sure you keep living well.

"Because even if a universe's lifespan is calculable, the variety of life that
is generated within it is not. The buildings we have erected, the art and music
and verse we have composed, the very lives we've led: none of them could have
been predicted, because none of them were inevitable. Our universe might have
slid into equilibrium emitting nothing more than a quiet hiss. The fact that it
spawned such plenitude is a miracle, one that is matched only by your universe
giving rise to you."

When you realize what the first person narrative of the copper tablet REALLY
means, it feels like your transported from one time to another. It's very
jarring and sudden, it almost makes you feel like you're a part of the story,
just like when the man saw Raiyna ! The way he plays with time is very
awe-inspiring.

"but it's not the whole story when it comes to love; over the long term, love
also means working through money problems and picking dirty laundry off the
floor."

# Done
