import TextLayout from '../../components/Layout/TextLayout.js';
export default TextLayout

# White Tiles

"I'm going to be late", thought Michael. He was barely ever late, so people
would be suspicious if he wasn't one of the people waiting in the room before
the event began.

The pit pat of his footsteps turned into a pitter-patter. "I guess that's a
roundabout way of speeding up", the thought floated through Michael's brain
uninvited as he avoided another black tile. "Don't step on the black tiles, that
bothers me", thought Michael. This thought was deliberate, so Michael welcomed
it.

"Yes, stepping on the black tiles is only for bad days. White tiles are much
more pleasing. Well, that's actually not true, is it. Because back home at that
one friend's house there was a bathroom with all black tiles, and it was quite
pleasing."

Samuel nearly passed by Michael, almost unnoticed.

"Oh, hey Shmoo! Good to see you, man". Seeing people grounded Michael. It
stopped him from slip slopping into solipsistic thoughts. People called Samuel
Shmoo. Michael called Samuel Samuel, except for today.

"Oh, hey Mike". People called Michael Mike. Samuel called Michael Mike. "I guess
today isn't a special day for Samuel," thought Michael.

Neither Michael nor Samuel slowed their pace as they walked right past each
other. If it wasn't for the anxious feeling tickling the back of Michael's head
about accidentally calling Samuel Shmoo, Michael wouldn't have even believed
that the encounter had really happened, it was that fast. "Or at least,
relatively speaking it was," Michael continued the thought.

Sometimes, a second would take this long to Michael. Sometimes, it would take
this long. Those are two different lengths, to anyone reading my mind. "I like
to explain why I do things," thought Michael, as he avoided another black tile.

"Why did I just do that?" Michael was avoiding black tiles. "It's not that I'm
avoiding black tiles, I clearly don't dislike them, as is evidenced by that one
bathroom". Michael preferred to be rigorous when inspecting his mind, lest he
lose his train of thought. "It seems like that metaphor lends itself to a really
easy pun about a slippery slope of losing your train of thought into losing your
mind," thought Michael.

Michael thinks a lot.

"I think a lot," thought Michael. That's not necessarily a bad thing though.
"It's not necessarily a bad thing, though," thought Michael. Like a flywheel,
Michael's mind took a while to return to normal after use. "I feel like my
mind..." Michael couldn't continue the thought. He couldn't articulate what he
felt. There was a single atomic thought in his mind that he couldn't get a
foothold into. He couldn't figure out how to break it up into its constituent
pieces in order to translate it into English.

"I'm sorry to anyone reading my mind that's interested in what I'm thinking
right now. This is the most important thought I've had in a while, and I can't
explain it." Normally, the concept that people might be able to read his mind
gave Michael anxiety, and made him feel guilty or ashamed. But right now, he
wished that there was a higher power that understood how he felt, so the higher
power could translate for him.

Michael's atomic thought can be described with a picture. It was a graph. On the
y axis, we see a homebaked Michael metric, "brain activity". On the x axis, we
see time. In terms of the x axis, there were 3 important points on the graph.
Zero, Door, and Now. "See this is the context that anyone short of omniscient
misses", Michael thought. "What would someone who doesn't know my entire life
story expect when they see the 'Door' label?".

  Michael didn't even recognize that the challenge was also present for the
  'Zero' label. This is because the 'Zero' label was meaningless to Michael, it
  was an nebulous time. It described a span of about 110 minutes. You could have
  pinned the label time to any clock time and it would have worked just as fine.

Anyway. The graph was constant, and near the top of the y axis between Zero and
Door. Upon hitting Door, brain activity spiked then dipped. "Like a drunken
butterfly," thought Michael. After the initial spike and dip, brain activity
once again spiked and dipped - but the average fell slightly. "Like one side of
a slinky as it slink slops down the stairs," continued Michael.

After the slinky region, "as leading academics colloquially refer to it as",
brain activity once again spiked and dipped. This time was less dramatic, "but
you'd have to be there to understand how or why," Michael thought. He didn't
quite seethe while thinking this, because he wasn't really having a
conversation. But the color that he always sees in his head when he's angry was
the color of the shirt worn by the imaginary person he thought that thought at.

"You're not quite an imaginary friend, and you're not quite relevant to my life.
This is the last time I'll see you, and you aren't bothered by that in the
slightest. If I had never met you, I'd be the same. But if I had never met you,
you'd never have existed. I don't suppose that bothers you, does it?"

The unnamed and unknown imaginary academic nodded thoughtfully at Michael's
comment. "Yes," he postulated, waving an academic looking pointer/stick in his
hand. "I can understand how anything less than the full picture would be
conducive to making the truth elusive."

Michael liked that. He smiled. Validation and a nice rhyme. Maybe Michael would
miss this guy after all. He named him "Professor Red", so he could recall this
manifestation of his experiences upon a later time when he wanted to talk to
someone smart and comforting.

"Maybe I should call my mom instead", thought Michael. Michael's mom was real,
and Professor Red wasn't, you see. You can understand Michael's quandary, I'm
sure.

Michael's thought were interrupted by a door opening. "Samuel", thought Michael.
The door was opened by Samuel, he was no doubt entering a room. "I wonder what
room Samuel's going into," not that he cared. It was just a nice thought to
have. It was comforting to ask a question that he could answer. But Michael
didn't turn around.

The thought "I'm quite proud of myself" flitted through Michael's brain as he
made the conscious decision to not turn around. He grimaced at the uninvited
thought. "If I was having a conversation with someone right now, it woulda been
SO uncool to say that. Besides, it's not like I'm proud of myself for walking
down a hallway. I'm just proud that I didn't give in to the ethereal desire to
answer every question I think of. It was a nice question, with a nice answer. In
theory, I can answer it every time. But gaining the answer wouldn't help me. To
turn around would be a pointless exercise. It would be indulgent, frivolous, and
nonsensical." Michael's tirade crescendoed upon thinking the word nonsensical.
It continued with a diminuendo, "Besides, I don't even need to look around to
figure out what door that was. I could always look up or figure out Samuel's
class schedule, and cross reference that with the time right now." Michael
struggled to not pull out his phone to look at the clock. He knew if he pulled
his phone out then the back of his mind would start buzzing.

The familiar faces on his background greeted him, along with a few
notifications. "I'm proud of myself for downloading the New York Times app, but
I really don't care about..," Michael didn't finish the thought.

The sound of a door swinging closed once again interrupted Michael's thoughts.
His phone slip slopped back into his pocket.

He turned around.

A hallway full of closed doors `****ed` back at him. "There it is again! There's
no English word for the single thought that I'm having. A hallway full of doors
doesn't stare, there aren't eyes or the ability to react." Michael pondered his
mundane existence. "A hallway full of doors also doesn't invite," Michael
thought. This thought was substantiated with the anxiety that some of the doors
were locked. A hallway of doors simply exists. And does that which only a
hallway of doors can do.

"To understand exactly what Michael thought," thought Michael, "you'd need to
know everything and exactly everything that Michael knows. No more, and no less,
lest you draw a wrong conclusion." Only with identical conditions would you be
able to walk in Michael's shoes. Michael's souls made contact with another white
tile.

"A hallway full of doors, when stared at with a simple question, only does one
thing," thought Michael. "It exists, it simply is. All the things you can think
about doors, it does. And more, because there are, well..." Michael didn't
finish the thought, because it was too obvious to him, and he didn't wanna come
off as base to the person that might be reading his mind right now.

"Because there are more doors in the thought of a hallway full of doors than in
the thought of a single door," Michael's brain volunteered. He scowled.
Professor red stepped into the back of Michael's mind wearing a dark green
sweater and slacks. "He's always in slacks," decided Michael. The scowl didn't
leave his face, but Michael's mood was back to positive.

Michael took another step. He had been walking this whole time, but this time
"he noticed it", Michael thought. Referring himself in the third person as if he
was narrating a book. There was a black tile 4 paces in front of him, slightly
out of his way. Michael contemplated going out of his way to step on it, to see
if it would make him feel anything. Professor Red's sweater wasn't see through,
yet it managed to not have a color. "What a strange metaphor for my emotional
state," thought Michael. "I wonder what feeling keeps Professor Red the warmest.
I wonder if there're any emotions that'd be considered designer in his world."

Michael took another step. He had actually taken 2 steps, so this was his third
of four in order to get to the black tile. "Now stepping on it would make me
really go outta my way," thought Michael, as he went really out of his way to
step on the black tile. As Michael's foot landed on the line between white and
black, Michael realized that he didn't really care about the different tile
colors.

A buzzing feeling entered the back of Michael's head. He cracked his knuckles
one by one and took a deep breath, feeling his chest press against his shirt. It
was a nice shirt, he decided.

Michael took another breath. He had been breathing this whole time, but this
time he noticed it. Although, he didn't recognize the fact that he noticed it.
Sometimes it's better to be unaware. "Not quite blissfully ignorant," thought
Michael. Ok, maybe he did notice it. Or maybe he was just responding to this
thought, this figment of my imagination.

"The second one," thought Michael.

Professor Red looked up from the papers he was doing official business with at
his desk. "What did you just say?" he asked.

"The second one," repeated Michael, helpfully.

"Michael, I'm just a figment of your imagination. I see that you have the
concept of me as a real person somewhere in your head, right next to my 2003 tax
filings. But I'm not. You can't have an original conversation with me, as you
control everything I say. This type of mental masturbation is severely
discouraged here."

Professor Red's shirt changed to that same shamed and embarrassed dark green as
he chided Michael. "Whatever, nerd." Michael decided that he didn't like
Professor Red as much as he thought he did. He put some creases in Professor
Red's slacks, because such a pure honor didn't deserve to be subjected to the
bothersome Professor Red.

Michael took another step. He didn't notice it when he did, but I thought it was
worth mentioning in case he meant to notice it.

"I'm going to be late," Michael thought.